src/exercise/01.md, before:

# Context Module Functions

## 📝 Your Notes

Elaborate on your learnings here in `src/exercise/01.md`

## Background

Let's take a look at an example of a simple context and a reducer combo:

```javascript
// src/context/counter.js
const CounterContext = React.createContext()

function CounterProvider({step = 1, initialCount = 0, ...props}) {
  const [state, dispatch] = React.useReducer(
    (state, action) => {
      const change = action.step ?? step
      switch (action.type) {
        case 'increment': {
          return {...state, count: state.count + change}
        }
        case 'decrement': {
          return {...state, count: state.count - change}
        }
        default: {
          throw new Error(`Unhandled action type: ${action.type}`)
        }
      }
    },
    {count: initialCount},
  )

  const value = [state, dispatch]
  return <CounterContext.Provider value={value} {...props} />
}

function useCounter() {
  const context = React.useContext(CounterContext)
  if (context === undefined) {
    throw new Error(`useCounter must be used within a CounterProvider`)
  }
  return context
}

export {CounterProvider, useCounter}
```

```javascript
// src/screens/counter.js
import {useCounter} from 'context/counter'

function Counter() {
  const [state, dispatch] = useCounter()
  const increment = () => dispatch({type: 'increment'})
  const decrement = () => dispatch({type: 'decrement'})
  return (
    <div>
      <div>Current Count: {state.count}</div>
      <button onClick={decrement}>-</button>
      <button onClick={increment}>+</button>
    </div>
  )
}
```

```javascript
// src/index.js
import {CounterProvider} from 'context/counter'

function App() {
  return (
    <CounterProvider>
      <Counter />
    </CounterProvider>
  )
}
```

> You can pull this example up here:
> http://localhost:3000/isolated/examples/counter-before.js

I want to focus in on the user of our reducer (the `Counter` component). Notice
that they have to create their own `increment` and `decrement` functions which
call `dispatch`. I don't think that's a super great API. It becomes even more of
an annoyance when you have a sequence of `dispatch` functions that need to be
called (like you'll see in our exercise).

The first inclination is to create "helper" functions and include them in the
context. Let's do that. You'll notice that we have to put it in
`React.useCallback` so we can list our "helper" functions in dependency lists):

```javascript
const increment = React.useCallback(() => dispatch({type: 'increment'}), [
  dispatch,
])
const decrement = React.useCallback(() => dispatch({type: 'decrement'}), [
  dispatch,
])
const value = {state, increment, decrement}
return <CounterContext.Provider value={value} {...props} />

// now users can consume it like this:

const {state, increment, decrement} = useCounter()
```

This isn't a _bad_ solution necessarily. But
[as my friend Dan says](https://twitter.com/dan_abramov/status/1125758606765383680):

> Helper methods are object junk that we need to recreate and compare for no
> purpose other than superficially nicer looking syntax.

What Dan recommends (and what Facebook does) is pass dispatch as we had
originally. And to solve the annoyance we were trying to solve in the first
place, they use importable "helpers" that accept `dispatch`. Let's take a look
at how that would look:

```javascript
// src/context/counter.js
const CounterContext = React.createContext()

function CounterProvider({step = 1, initialCount = 0, ...props}) {
  const [state, dispatch] = React.useReducer(
    (state, action) => {
      const change = action.step ?? step
      switch (action.type) {
        case 'increment': {
          return {...state, count: state.count + change}
        }
        case 'decrement': {
          return {...state, count: state.count - change}
        }
        default: {
          throw new Error(`Unhandled action type: ${action.type}`)
        }
      }
    },
    {count: initialCount},
  )

  const value = [state, dispatch]

  return <CounterContext.Provider value={value} {...props} />
}

function useCounter() {
  const context = React.useContext(CounterContext)
  if (context === undefined) {
    throw new Error(`useCounter must be used within a CounterProvider`)
  }
  return context
}

const increment = dispatch => dispatch({type: 'increment'})
const decrement = dispatch => dispatch({type: 'decrement'})

export {CounterProvider, useCounter, increment, decrement}
```

```javascript
// src/screens/counter.js
import {useCounter, increment, decrement} from 'context/counter'

function Counter() {
  const [state, dispatch] = useCounter()
  return (
    <div>
      <div>Current Count: {state.count}</div>
      <button onClick={() => decrement(dispatch)}>-</button>
      <button onClick={() => increment(dispatch)}>+</button>
    </div>
  )
}
```

**This may look like overkill, and it is.** However, in some situations this
pattern can not only help you reduce duplication, but it also
[helps improve performance](https://twitter.com/dan_abramov/status/1125774170154065920)
and helps you avoid mistakes in dependency lists.

I wouldn't recommend this all the time, but sometimes it can be a help!

📜 If you need to review the context API, here are the docs:

- https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html
- https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-reference.html#usecontext

🦉 Tip: You may notice that the context provider/consumers in React DevTools
just display as `Context.Provider` and `Context.Consumer`. That doesn't do a
good job differentiating itself from other contexts that may be in your app.
Luckily, you can set the context `displayName` and it'll display that name for
the `Provider` and `Consumer`. Hopefully in the future this will happen
automatically ([learn more](https://github.com/babel/babel/issues/11241)).

```javascript
const MyContext = React.createContext()
MyContext.displayName = 'MyContext'
```

## Exercise

Production deploys:

- [Exercise](http://advanced-react-patterns.netlify.app/isolated/exercise/01.js)
- [Final](http://advanced-react-patterns.netlify.app/isolated/final/01.js)

👨‍💼 We have a user settings page where we render a form for the user's
information. We'll be storing the user's information in context and we'll follow
some patterns for exposing ways to keep that context updated as well as
interacting with the backend.

> 💰 In this exercise, if you enter the text "fail" in the tagline or biography
> input, then the "backend" will reject the promise so you can test the error
> case.

Right now the `UserSettings` form is calling `userDispatch` directly. Your job
is to move that to a module-level "helper" function that accepts dispatch as
well as the rest of the information that's needed to execute the sequence of
dispatches.

> 🦉 To keep things simple we're leaving everything in one file, but normally
> you'll put the context in a separate module.

## 🦉 Feedback

Fill out
[the feedback form](https://ws.kcd.im/?ws=Advanced%20React%20Patterns%20%F0%9F%A4%AF&e=01%3A%20Context%20Module%20Functions&em=).

Commit message:

feat(exercise/1): Context Module Function

src/exercise/01.md, after:

# Context Module Functions

## 📝 Your Notes

Elaborate on your learnings here in `src/exercise/01.md`

We abstract the logic, that goes in to the dispatch functions, from the 
component to a separate function that takes the dispatch as an argument(and
whatever other arguments needed). In this way the users of our API can just
consume that function, instead of having to implement the dispatch each
time.
## Background

Let's take a look at an example of a simple context and a reducer combo:

```javascript
// src/context/counter.js
const CounterContext = React.createContext()

function CounterProvider({step = 1, initialCount = 0, ...props}) {
  const [state, dispatch] = React.useReducer(
    (state, action) => {
      const change = action.step ?? step
      switch (action.type) {
        case 'increment': {
          return {...state, count: state.count + change}
        }
        case 'decrement': {
          return {...state, count: state.count - change}
        }
        default: {
          throw new Error(`Unhandled action type: ${action.type}`)
        }
      }
    },
    {count: initialCount},
  )

  const value = [state, dispatch]
  return <CounterContext.Provider value={value} {...props} />
}

function useCounter() {
  const context = React.useContext(CounterContext)
  if (context === undefined) {
    throw new Error(`useCounter must be used within a CounterProvider`)
  }
  return context
}

export {CounterProvider, useCounter}
```

```javascript
// src/screens/counter.js
import {useCounter} from 'context/counter'

function Counter() {
  const [state, dispatch] = useCounter()
  const increment = () => dispatch({type: 'increment'})
  const decrement = () => dispatch({type: 'decrement'})
  return (
    <div>
      <div>Current Count: {state.count}</div>
      <button onClick={decrement}>-</button>
      <button onClick={increment}>+</button>
    </div>
  )
}
```

```javascript
// src/index.js
import {CounterProvider} from 'context/counter'

function App() {
  return (
    <CounterProvider>
      <Counter />
    </CounterProvider>
  )
}
```

> You can pull this example up here:
> http://localhost:3000/isolated/examples/counter-before.js

I want to focus in on the user of our reducer (the `Counter` component). Notice
that they have to create their own `increment` and `decrement` functions which
call `dispatch`. I don't think that's a super great API. It becomes even more of
an annoyance when you have a sequence of `dispatch` functions that need to be
called (like you'll see in our exercise).

The first inclination is to create "helper" functions and include them in the
context. Let's do that. You'll notice that we have to put it in
`React.useCallback` so we can list our "helper" functions in dependency lists):

```javascript
const increment = React.useCallback(() => dispatch({type: 'increment'}), [
  dispatch,
])
const decrement = React.useCallback(() => dispatch({type: 'decrement'}), [
  dispatch,
])
const value = {state, increment, decrement}
return <CounterContext.Provider value={value} {...props} />

// now users can consume it like this:

const {state, increment, decrement} = useCounter()
```

This isn't a _bad_ solution necessarily. But
[as my friend Dan says](https://twitter.com/dan_abramov/status/1125758606765383680):

> Helper methods are object junk that we need to recreate and compare for no
> purpose other than superficially nicer looking syntax.

What Dan recommends (and what Facebook does) is pass dispatch as we had
originally. And to solve the annoyance we were trying to solve in the first
place, they use importable "helpers" that accept `dispatch`. Let's take a look
at how that would look:

```javascript
// src/context/counter.js
const CounterContext = React.createContext()

function CounterProvider({step = 1, initialCount = 0, ...props}) {
  const [state, dispatch] = React.useReducer(
    (state, action) => {
      const change = action.step ?? step
      switch (action.type) {
        case 'increment': {
          return {...state, count: state.count + change}
        }
        case 'decrement': {
          return {...state, count: state.count - change}
        }
        default: {
          throw new Error(`Unhandled action type: ${action.type}`)
        }
      }
    },
    {count: initialCount},
  )

  const value = [state, dispatch]

  return <CounterContext.Provider value={value} {...props} />
}

function useCounter() {
  const context = React.useContext(CounterContext)
  if (context === undefined) {
    throw new Error(`useCounter must be used within a CounterProvider`)
  }
  return context
}

const increment = dispatch => dispatch({type: 'increment'})
const decrement = dispatch => dispatch({type: 'decrement'})

export {CounterProvider, useCounter, increment, decrement}
```

```javascript
// src/screens/counter.js
import {useCounter, increment, decrement} from 'context/counter'

function Counter() {
  const [state, dispatch] = useCounter()
  return (
    <div>
      <div>Current Count: {state.count}</div>
      <button onClick={() => decrement(dispatch)}>-</button>
      <button onClick={() => increment(dispatch)}>+</button>
    </div>
  )
}
```

**This may look like overkill, and it is.** However, in some situations this
pattern can not only help you reduce duplication, but it also
[helps improve performance](https://twitter.com/dan_abramov/status/1125774170154065920)
and helps you avoid mistakes in dependency lists.

I wouldn't recommend this all the time, but sometimes it can be a help!

📜 If you need to review the context API, here are the docs:

- https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html
- https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-reference.html#usecontext

🦉 Tip: You may notice that the context provider/consumers in React DevTools
just display as `Context.Provider` and `Context.Consumer`. That doesn't do a
good job differentiating itself from other contexts that may be in your app.
Luckily, you can set the context `displayName` and it'll display that name for
the `Provider` and `Consumer`. Hopefully in the future this will happen
automatically ([learn more](https://github.com/babel/babel/issues/11241)).

```javascript
const MyContext = React.createContext()
MyContext.displayName = 'MyContext'
```

## Exercise

Production deploys:

- [Exercise](http://advanced-react-patterns.netlify.app/isolated/exercise/01.js)
- [Final](http://advanced-react-patterns.netlify.app/isolated/final/01.js)

👨‍💼 We have a user settings page where we render a form for the user's
information. We'll be storing the user's information in context and we'll follow
some patterns for exposing ways to keep that context updated as well as
interacting with the backend.

> 💰 In this exercise, if you enter the text "fail" in the tagline or biography
> input, then the "backend" will reject the promise so you can test the error
> case.

Right now the `UserSettings` form is calling `userDispatch` directly. Your job
is to move that to a module-level "helper" function that accepts dispatch as
well as the rest of the information that's needed to execute the sequence of
dispatches.

> 🦉 To keep things simple we're leaving everything in one file, but normally
> you'll put the context in a separate module.

## 🦉 Feedback

Fill out
[the feedback form](https://ws.kcd.im/?ws=Advanced%20React%20Patterns%20%F0%9F%A4%AF&e=01%3A%20Context%20Module%20Functions&em=).
